*2025-01-24*

Welcome! 

I am now writing a blog on SW engineering, with full focus on embedded SW development. I have tried to find books or wiki-pages or blogs on embedded SW engineering, and the result has not been overwhelming. Later I might put together a list of nice references.

I will write on embedded SW engineering on three levels: SW design, SW Engineering and SW Managament.

SW design includes SW Architecture and design, coding, cerification and integration.

SW engineering includes CI, and build; version control, variation handling and CM;  release, deployment and industrialization.

SW management includes  product ownership and customer management; project management, planning and followup; risk and wuality management; team and competence management.

But let's start this blog with somthing fundamental: SW components. 

SW components, also called modules, subsystems, units, elements (and other things), are the fundament of a lot of the practices above. *Good* SW components will make your SW development easier less time consuming and less expensive. Regardless if you work in a single person project or in a project with hunders of SW developers. Good SW components will make your code more understandable, contain less defects, and make it possible to develop and communicate design.

You don't do components because the processors needs it, or because the code will be faster. There is no technical reasons to write good components. Your device doesn't care about components. You do good components for the sake of the SW developers (and CMs and project leaders). You do components to be able to talk (and write) about code. And to think about code (regardless if you are a verbal or visual thinker). To develop SW you need to break down your work into manageable tasks, and this is hard to do without components.

I don't think this is revolutionary news for anyone. Let's instad discuss *how* to make a *good* component.

A good component is easy to understand, speak about, think about, design, maintain and verify. For this it need to have a good name (yes, really) and a purpose. The name is short and corresponds to the purpose of the component. Isn't this obvious. Yes and no. I haven't heard anyone saying that components should be hard to understand, hard to speak about etc etc. But I have seen a lot of components with misleading names, unclear purpose, ACWTCI-design (yes, I made that term up, I will explain it), and when asked, got the answer: "Oh, that doesn't matter the code works anyways".

But it does matter. For the people, not the device. The harder it is to speak bout code, the harder it is to think about it, the harder it is to verify it, or troubleshoot it, and the harder it is to feel sufficently assured that the code actually do work, to release it.

So what do you need to do?

1) Decide on the purpose of the component
2) Name the component according to the purpose, (if this is hard, start again, from 1)
3) Decide on the constraints of the component: for example performance, interfaces, robustness, concurrency
4) Decide on the needed quality level

Document this, so you remember it tomorrow, and other team or project members know this.

You have now done design decisions. In many organizations decisions this requires discussing with others, passing a review or getting approvals from a SW architect.

When you have done thiws you have simplified troubleshooting of the component tremendously. Few things are more frustrating than trying to find the cause of a system level fault, observing some strange behaviour of a component, and not being able to understand if it is intended or not.

I have written more about components [here](../reference/component.html).

In coming blog articles I will write more about quality levels, and component constraints. And architecture, and more about the properties of a good component. And how to document the purpose.

And finally, ACWTCI-design is spelled out "add code where the cursor is". A design principle where you ignore any architectural or design constraints, and add code implementing new functions where the cursor is (or in the file currently open, or in the module you have mandate to change). Your SW will not gain from this design method.

Good night.