*2025-01-25*

Last post I wrote about one of the basic SW design concepts - the component -  without going into details on how you will gain
from it or how to really achieve a good component.

I will not continue with this topic right now, instead I will do a rapid presentation of myself, and which industrial areas embedded SW engineering consists of.

I am Petter Bergman, am embedded SW architect. I have done SW development since the 1980's and embedded SW engineering since the 1990's. I also have a number if years experience a SW project manager and systems engineer.

Embedded SW engineering, as I see it is the engineering of SW in devices that are not computers, or similar to computers. For example automotive, consumer electronics, aerospace, med-tech and internet-of-things.

The information processing in these devices are done with the purpose of performing actions on, or registering information from,the physical world, not only to process or display information. Moving atoms not only electrons, you could say. This differs from the servers, clients, PCs, tablets and smart phones. Telecom seem to part of both worlds, and also connecting them.

Actually, regarding connecting, the IT and the embedded world becomes more and more connected. Almost all devices, except the smallest are connected to servers, smartphones, home automation hubs, and log their data to the servers, are controlled by smartphones, available remote, and are controlled by through hubs. 

This has three major effects:

* To succeed with a project, you probably need both embedded and IT expertice as well as data communication competence.
* SW upgrades are assumed to happen, this affect the life-cycle of your product a lot.
* Cyber-security becomes an issue in embedded.

In this blog I will still focus on the embedded SW engineering, accnowledging that the device the SW controls can be anything from a smart light switch to a commercial aircraft with hundreds of passengers. The SW complexity can span from an OS-less, 100 lines of code application deployed on a Arduino or PIC style controller, to a millions lines of code self driving car SW, running on a multi core Linux system deploying DNNs on special purpose HW in tandem with special purpose processors and OSes for critical SW.



